Then he said, "Listen, carefully listen." And 14 of them, 14 of them were sons and daughters,
daughters or boys and girls.
You heard so many times, this buddha, you heard so many times the buddha, it's kind of so renowned,
so powerful, so spiritual, so important.
And you heard, and also in both samsara and rana, it's kind of echoing that buddha everywhere. This
big echo and hearing, so wonderful, so beautiful, that is, is, is, is.
Where is that? Is it? Is it? And this is with you, is it? This is with you, that big one, that big,
big drum, that is, is not outside.
It's right with you, right with you, right with you, that big one. And the way he explained here,
the way he explained here, and again if you count this, there is seven wonders, seven wonders,
seven wonders.
The fourth one is, how wonderful. This buddha is with us. That big song, that big name, looks like
so fancy, so important, so difficult, so hard, hard to get.
Believe it or not, it's with you. This is with you. That's it. What's it called? There is a long
time ago, there is a beautiful song called "Rip, When, Wonder".
"Rip, Please, Believe It or Not". Believe it or not, "Rip, Please". Yeah, now I think it's gone,
that show is not here. But otherwise he says, "Believe it or not".
The skin, when you watch, many times we find, always we find that, that, and this kind of way he
explained, also his mouth, and the skin which always jokes, his mouth, lips are kind of like, there
will be turning to believe it or not.
It is so delicious. So this is what, this big buddha, big name, big fancy, difficulty, hard shape,
so kind of like power way, looks like so power way, and all this, believe it or not, is with you.
How wonderful it is. Or how shocking it is. How shocking, how wonderful. It's really, it's here.
Right with you. Right with you.
And the way it is there, it's not just with you, it's just with you all the time, yes, is it?
With all the time, never separated, even one instant. One instant is not separated. How really, how
, how amazing it is, how amazing, how shocking, how wonderful it is.
It is all the time. And then even though it is with us, with me, with you, with everyone, it's this
, it's not also here said, it's to everyone, everyone.
All the beings over six realms, they all have the same nature, never separate, no matter what they
are going through, or what we are going through, through up and down and all these things.
It's never separate, separate. Everyone has this, this. All the beings over six realms. All the
beings of the head realm have this. All the beings of the hungry ghost realm have this.
All the beings of the animal realm have this. And all the beings of the human beings have this. And
all the beings of the asura have this. And all the beings of the gods have that.
Everyone has this. Not just a head that, they have no even slightly difference that. Everyone is
equal. Completely it's like democrats, democrats. Everyone is equal.
There is nothing is slight, even divisions up and down that call it, that nature. Everyone is
perfect, beautiful. What is that then?
As I said before, that growth, that self-born awareness, that in boring world of three kyas, dharm
akaya, samokaya, namakaya, that all that is, that powerful nickel, that powerful item or atoms of
the nickel, that is, is here, right?
Then everyone has that. That. And how beautiful it is. And now the next one is, even though it is v
idas, how the beings of the six realms are acting, acting, they are completely lost it.
Lost it, they are helpless, they are supportless, kind of, they completely lost it. And completely
looks like they have power and status, poor, pathetic, and very feeble, and all of that.
That, because they didn't recognize, nobody recognized. This is what used to make great masters. It
's the same one, same as, as like those all properties.
All properties, I mean there is one part, one payment for example, one payment has such big gold, n
ugget gold under their ground, under their house, ground of their house.
But they are so poor, they are so poor of the clothes, poor of the food, and everything. And they
don't know, they have that gold.
Gold is not telling I'm here, nor they are knowing that gold is there. That's what they experience.
If they knew that, if they walk onto that natural, they are not going to be as that power, power
and status.
But we sentient beings always are looking somewhere, looking somewhere, completely ignoring our
treasure, our nature, our beauty, beauty.
And they are looking somewhere else, all the time. They are looking somewhere else. Not just the
Buddha, that's the habit of the sentient beings. Always looking, searching, searching something.
And also, that means also, hardly sometimes we appreciate ourselves. We are being great for
ourselves. For example, we are looking somewhere else.
That's what also, in American history, they are always on the other side, the garden looks greener.
That's the way. Even your garden is good, even beautiful, they are always looking somewhere.
They are looking somewhere else, really power, with greedy, with miserly, with the color of the
most common, like a coverture.
They are covertures, covertures, looking, searching. This is what is called ego-cling. Ego-cling is
always hunger. Hunger is hunger.
Nature is hanging, not enough. Not enough. That's how it is. Even we are the richest beings, the
richest in every aspect, still looking, searching, and struggling, and fighting, cruelly, to get
more.
That's how it is. Ego is. Ego has so many things to hunger, looking, searching.
In the same way, absolutely, as a hunger point level, also we are looking for the outside. For the
outside.
How strange it is. Again, how broken it is. How strange it is, looking outside. Even it is right
with you.
The day one, until now. From the wiggliest time that we wandered, wiggliest times of lives, we
wandered, all those different ups and don'ts and samsara and all that, went through all the birth
and death and the cold, negating, sicknesses, and went through.
It's never separated. It's here, but we are looking always somewhere outside. That is the state.
That is how strange it is.
And then our next one is the wonders. Next one, or next we locate, or next it is how strange it is,
or now believe it or not, next one.
It's there, which is, I think, three. Three of those wonders. Three wonders.
This nature is, the self-born awareness is. Nature of the self-born awareness is what? Clarity is
refined, clear, is essence, is brilliant as the sun.
It's like that, that God. It's clear, brilliant, refined, very refined. It's like sun. It's shining
.
Because of that, of every, our intelligence, for example, our wisdom, our intelligence, our
knowledge is the beams of light from that, this, this intelligence, from this self-born awareness.
Self-born awareness is like sun and is radiant. Even the dark and thickest of the mist and the cold
ness is shining up, which is guiding us, or which is guiding to every living beings.
The intelligence, always simple ways, the surviving intelligence we have. This is the light of this
, this self-born awareness. Light is shining from that.
And then, if we go more detailed, then all, every intelligence aspect, according to Buddha teaching
, three wisdoms. Starting wisdom, contemplation wisdoms, meditation wisdoms, all wisdoms that
understand all the relative truths, wisdoms that understand all the absolute truth, wisdoms that
understand both equally, with all the self-realization.
All that is coming from this. And then, if we go higher level, all those five wisdoms is the shine.
This is brilliant light that coming from that, from our heart center or from this self-born
awareness, which is always shining, rising, always brilliant, brilliant.
But people still didn't recognize. Recognize, or even they recognized, they made all different d
harmas, different kind of like dharmas and different exaggerations and kind of blowed up, blowed up.
Nature, how strange it is, that is how this goddess is.
Next one is then, again, the next, the fourth, the fourth wonders, wonders. This nature, the self-
born awareness, again, self-born awareness is, as I said, is grown, grown.
It is our best, it is our foundation. This self-born awareness, whether we use terminology grown,
whether we use terminology self-born, or whether we use terminology as self-born awareness, or
whether we use Dharma data, or whether we use the absolute body data,
this is, is, is beyond of the death and birth, beyond of the death and birth. It is not temporarily
arrived. It is built from the beginning.
Nature is built from the beginning, and nature is uncompounded. Nature is inconceivable. Nature is
not fabricated by anyone. Therefore, this nature is never born. Never take birth at the first place
.
It is never, and therefore, it is never going to, it is dying, dying. So therefore, it is beyond of
death and birth. Again, this nature, what does it mean?
It means self-born awareness, the inherited nature. All here, as the kyapa, you determine the
metaphor as brilliant sunlight. This brilliant sunlight is never being born at first places, and
never going to die.
Die, or believe. Birth and death is an ocean of the duality, or an ocean of the, of these systems,
what we go through. It's a display.
Therefore, it's never, for that reason, the self-born awareness is how wonderful, how amazing, how
shocking it is. Or believe it or not, it's never, it's beyond of the death and birth. That is what
this nature is.
this. Then, next one.